# Brain_Tumor_Detection_Using_Deep_Learning
A brain tumor is a disease caused due to the growth of abnormal cells in the brain There are two main categories of brain tumor; they are non-cancerous (benign) brain tumors and cancerous (malignant) brain tumors. Manual method of visual inspection of MRI images is tedious and inaccurate. Histological grading, based on a stereotactic biopsy test, is the gold standard and the convention for detecting the grade of a brain tumor. The biopsy procedure requires the neurosurgeon to drill a small hole into the skull from which the tissue is collected. There are many risk factors involving the biopsy test, including bleeding from the tumor and brain causing infection, seizures, severe migraine, stroke, coma and even death. But the main concern with the stereotactic biopsy is that it is not 100% accurate. which may result in a serious diagnostic error followed by a wrong clinical management of the disease. Tumor biopsy being challenging for brain tumor patients, non-invasive imaging techniques like Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI) have been extensively employed in diagnosing brain tumors. Therefore, automatic classification methods are essential to prevent the death rate of humans. It saves radiologist time and provides better accuracy. Automated detection of tumors in MRI is very important as it provides information about abnormal tissues which is necessary for planning treatment. With the growth of Artificial Intelligence, Deep learning models are used to diagnose the brain tumor by taking the images of magnetic resonance imaging (MRI). MRI is a type of scanning method that uses strong magnetic fields and radio waves to produce detailed images of the inner body. Machine Learning algorithm based on Neural Network (CNN) is used to detect brain tumors. Recent progress in the field of deep learning has helped the health industry in Medical Imaging for Medical Diagnostics of many discases. For Visual learning and Image Recognition, task CNN is the most prevalent and comnonly used machine learning algorithm. Similarly, in our paper, we introduce the convolutional neural network (CNN) approach along with Data Augmentation and Image Processing to categorize brain MRI scan images into cancerous and non-cancerous. Using the transfer learning approach we compared the performance of our scratched CNN model with pretrained ResNet-50 models. The experiment is tested on a very small dataset but the experimental result shows that our model accuracy result is very effective and have very low complexity rate by achieving 100% accuracy, while VGG-16 achieved 86%, ResNet-50 achieved 97% and Inception-V3 achieved 75% accuracy. Our model requires very less computational power and has much better accuracy results as compared to other pre-trained models. Keywords: brain tumor; MRI; deep learning: CNN; transfer learning; ResNet-50.
